If you enjoyed learning how to open, read and manipulate text files, just wait until this lecture
where you will learn how to create, write and modify files without leaving Python.
The changes we made to the text during the previous lecture only occurred in the variable we created
with the contents of the text, but we were not saving it to the file itself.
Now we will see exactly how to generate changes in the original file.
We learned how to open a file using the open method and we put the name of our document as the only
parameter.
But Open actually receives one more parameter, which is the opening mode.
The three opening modes that can be specified are read.
Only mode are if you open it with R, it is not possible to make modifications on the file.
You could only read its content.
This is the default opening mode.
If you don't put anything in this parameter, Python will assume that it should only be read open mode.
That's why Python assumed we wanted to work in read only mode in everything we did in the previous lecture.
We didn't put in any arguments right.
Only mode.
W In this case, if the file already exists, it is empty.
For example, it would be reset from zero and if it does not exist, it is created.
And finally right only mode by positioning at the end of the file a in this case the file is created
if it does not exist, but if it does, the cursor is positioned at the end, keeping the original content
so that you can write from there.
There are different methods to write a file, but I think it would be better to explain them in practice.
So let's head over to py term.
So let's start by working with the first open method which is read only mode.
We'll keep on working with the test text file containing these three lines.
We don't need to open it since we have the preview here.
Let's get back to PY charm.
To create a variable named file, we'll say file is equal to open and first we'll pass the parameter
for the file name in brackets.
So brackets test dot text.
And now we'll add the second parameter, which is the open method.
So far we've admitted it.
And when we do this, Python recognizes the read only mode, just like Phil told you before.
So we're going to open it like we did before, but using the AR.
So let's type file dot close, which is something we mustn't forget.
And before closing, it will try typing something in the middle of this file.
So file.
And we'll use the right method named.
Right.
And here we type.
I'm the new text.
What do you think will happen if I have this file open in a read only mode and I want to write something?
Well, let's see.
We can execute it.
It returns an error that says the file is not writable since we've opened it and read only mode.
Every time you open a file in this mode and try to write, you'll get an error because that's not the
correct mode.
So there are two ways of writing inside a file.
We can use W, which means right.
Or A, which means right after the last character of this file.
So let's do this with W.
This letter restarts the file completely.
If this file already exists, its contents will be replaced with a new text.
And if it doesn't exist, it will simply be created.
So first, let's try to create test one in w mode.
And right.
I'm the new text and let's execute it.
So there's nothing in the console because the file's been created in the folder.
Here's test one which says I am the new text.
This other file hasn't been modified yet.
If I write inside, test the existing file using W and write this, I'll lose what was already there.
Now Test says I'm the new text and everything that was inside is lost.
So be careful with W because it overwrites everything.
The right command writes what you have here.
But keep in mind that it doesn't add a line break automatically.
That is if we write hello and create a line for file write below and then type world here and print
it.
We'll get a file that says hello world without any spaces.
The line break won't be added unless you add a backslash followed by an NN, which is the way of adding
a line break at the end of each of the lines or before the last line at least.
If we execute it, our file will display the message Hello World in two separated lines.
This is one of the options.
Another option would be to write it like this.
Delete this line and leave only right with three quotation marks at the beginning and end.
A line break is not necessary where you must type entering line breaks manually.
Hello world.
Here I am.
And if we execute this, the file will be overwritten.
Now it says Hello World.
Here I am in four separated lines.
These are two options to add line breaks.
So there's a method similar to.
Right.
Let me find it.
So let's delete all of this from the DOT and we'll type a dot for you to see.
There's write two lines in plural as well.
This would correspond to read lines, but this is to write lines.
If you use this method, you can pass a list of strings.
So let's create a list that says, for example, Hello World.
Here I am.
And now I have four words or strings inside a list.
If I print them, I'll obtain a file that says Hello World.
Here I am without any spaces.
So this is a bit puzzling because our common sense would tell us a method called write lines is great
to write different lines, but its name is confusing.
It should be called write all these strings one after the other, since it basically what it does,
it doesn't write different lines, but it takes different string lines and concatenate them together.
I personally don't use this method.
If I had a list of strings that I wanted to write in different lines, I'd be more useful to create
a for loop with the right method so as to write each element and separate them with a line break.
We'd basically do it like this.
Here we can have a list with these words and we separately create a for loop that says for each word
in list.
Let's call file.
Write lines.
Write word and concatenate with a line break.
So if we execute this, we'll see that our file has added line breaks saying Hello world.
Here I am thanks to the for loop, but in short, right lines is not a practical method.
Finally, we'll open our file by locating ourselves in the last character.
This opens the file, moves the cursor to the end of the text it contains and starts writing from there.
So if we have our test text file here, which so far says Hello World, here I am, then we write file
right here and welcome here and we execute it.
Our file will be just as it was before, but it will say welcome at the end.
We modify that file instead of rewriting it.
So this method is quite used by programmers, especially when they want to write a log or see the activity
history of a program which saves in a file.
Everything you've done in a program, well, this allows you to save your activity after using a program
by adding the date, and we'll soon see how we can do this.
To sum up, that's what this open mode is used the most for.
If I had done this using W instead of a, I wouldn't have got any activity history but a file which
deletes everything and leaves only this.
And if I use R, which is the read only mode, I get an error because it says, hey, this file is not
writable.
So these are the ways in which you can manipulate an original file.
Not only can you display and manipulate its information inside Python, but also inside the file itself.
In the next lecture, we're going to learn how to open, manipulate and close files that are located
in the same folder as all the python files as well as in other folders that you choose.
That is an option which enables you to find the folder path to get those files.
So let's continue with the next lecture.
I'm looking forward to teaching you this.